Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist, and political ethicist who employed nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule, and to later inspire movements for civil rights and freedom across the world.
The honorific Mahātmā, first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.
Bengaluru, also known as Bangalore, is the capital and largest city of the southern Indian state of Karnataka.
As per the 2011 census, the city had a population of 8.4 million, making it the third most populous city in India and the most populous in South India.
The Bengaluru metropolitan area had a population of around 8.5 million, making it the fifth most populous urban agglomeration in the country.
It is located towards the southern end of the Deccan Plateau, at an altitude of 900 m (3,000 ft) above sea level.
The city is known as India's "Garden City", due to its parks and greenery.
Indian cuisine is not a single ethnic cuisine; instead, it represents the country's national culinary identity.
It consists of the regional and ethnic cuisines native to the Indian subcontinent.
Indian food has been influenced by religion, cultural choices and traditions.
Cricket is a bat-and-ball game that is played between two teams of eleven players on a field, at the centre of which is a 22-yard pitch with a wicket at each end, each comprising two bails balanced on three stumps.
Two players from the batting team, the striker and nonstriker, stand in front of either wicket holding bats, while one player from the fielding team, the bowler, bowls the ball toward the striker's wicket from the opposite end of the pitch.
The striker's goal is to hit the bowled ball with the bat and then switch places with the nonstriker, with the batting team scoring one run for each of these swaps.
Runs are also scored when the ball reaches the boundary of the field or when the ball is bowled illegally.
The Solar System is the gravitationally bound system of the Sun and the masses that orbit it, most prominently its eight planets, of which Earth is one.
The Solar System is an isolated single-star planetary system within the Milky Way Galaxy.
The system formed about 4.6 billion years ago when a dense region of a molecular cloud collapsed, creating the Sun and a protoplanetary disc from which the orbiting bodies assembled.
Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O.
It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and nearly colorless chemical substance.
It is the main constituent of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans.
Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent.
Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a large contributor to its physical and chemical properties.
It is vital for all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient.
Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent".
Computer science is the study of computation, information, and automation.
Included broadly in the sciences, computer science spans theoretical disciplines to applied disciplines.
An expert in the field is known as a computer scientist.
Human rights are moral principles or norms that establish standards of human behavior and are often protected by both national and international laws.
These rights are considered inherent and inalienable, meaning they belong to every individual simply by virtue of being human.
They encompass a broad range of civil, political, economic, social, and cultural rights, such as the right to life, freedom of speech, protection against enslavement, and right to education.
Present-day climate change includes both global warming—the ongoing increase in global average temperature—and its wider effects on Earth's climate system.
In a broader sense, climate change also includes previous long-term changes to Earth's climate.
The modern-day rise in global temperatures is driven by human activities, especially fossil fuel burning since the Industrial Revolution.
Fossil fuel use, deforestation, and some agricultural and industrial practices release greenhouse gases.
These gases absorb some of the heat that the Earth radiates after it warms from sunlight, warming the lower atmosphere.
Earth's atmosphere now has roughly 50% more carbon dioxide, the main gas driving global warming, than it did at the end of the pre-industrial era, reaching levels not seen for millions of years.
Mathematics is a field of knowledge concerned with abstract concepts such as numbers, geometric shapes, sets, functions, and probabilities.
It uses logical reasoning and proof to study and establish their properties, often expressed as theorems, formulas, and equations.
Mathematics is used to model and solve problems in science, engineering, technology, economics, and everyday life.
India, officially the Republic of India, is a country in South Asia.
It is the world's seventh-largest country by area and the largest by population.
Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the southwest, and the Bay of Bengal on the southeast, it shares land borders with Pakistan to the west; China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north; and Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east.
In the Indian Ocean, India is near Sri Lanka and the Maldives.
Yoga is a group of physical, mental, and spiritual practices or disciplines that originated with its own philosophy in ancient India, aimed at controlling body and mind to attain liberation (moksha), as practiced in the Hindu, Jain, and Buddhist traditions.
Modern forms of yoga are practiced worldwide, often mainly for exercise accompanied by other elements like relaxation.
